Black Insights

| Significant Literature by Black

Americans—1/60 to the Present

wonoan stare couse Niek Aaron Ford
|
|
To
My wife, Ola, who has helped me
in more ways than | can enumerate
PE
119 9
5%
Acknowledgments
Jowes Baldwin, ~Gabriot's Prayer,” reprinted from Go Tell it Frank Marshall Davis, #1 poems copyright by Frank Marshall
on be Mountain by James Baidwin, Copyright ©) 1953, 1952 Oavis. Used by permission of the author.
ty Jernes Baldwin and used by permission of the publisher. ow .
the Dia! Ine. "The Di of What It to Be Harry Dolen, Can on Angry Black Man Write of Laughter and
Press, jscovery Means Love?" by Harry Dolan. Copyright © 1969 by The New York
on Amarican,” reprinted from Nobody Knows My Name by Times C ny. B od by ‘sion
Jans Baldwin, Copyright © 1964, 1956, 1958, 1959, 1960. per. 6 7
1G by James Baldwin and used by permission of the Paul Laurence Dunbar, trom The Complete Poems of Paul
pubsidver, The Oia! Press, Inc. poms aged . Reprinted by permission of Dodd, Mead &
ny, Inc.
fone Boosemps. “A Summer Tragedy,” reprinted by permission Ralph Edson, “Prologue” and “ Eptogue™ from /nvisible Man,
ot Herold Ober Associates Incorporated. Copynght © 1944 by Ralph Ellison. Copyright 1952 by Ralph Ellison. Reprinted
tw Random House, Inc. by permission of Random House, Inc. "Richsed Wnght’s
& copytight 1 R Ropei fr
(awendolyn Brooks, from Selected Poems (1963) by Gwendolyn pe ae het by Rabie hereon ee
packers aon 1948, ag} by G ayes Brooks House,ine. “ Brave Words for 8 Starting Occasion,” copyright
lakaly. Reprinted by permission of Hamper . Pubashers, 1963, 1964 by Ralph Ellison. Reprinted from Shadow and
| Incorporated. Act, by Ralph Gilson, by permission of Random House, inc.
| Quude Brown, from Manchild in the Promised Land, repainted Nick Apron Ford, “Cultural Integration Through Literature,”
wih permission of the Macmillan Company, Copynght(® by Originally published in The Record. Teachers College. Colum-
Claude Brown. 1965. bie University, January 1965 Used by permission "The
q = Ordeal of Richard Wright.” originally published in College
“at limanstoen Wenaisekccerengian —Saeah harem 46. Patras Sppoason ae
Roprinted by permission of the Massechusetts Review, bnc. National Council of Teachers of English. “Let the Church Roll
on” and “One Way to Victory,” reprinted from Best Shovt
Iexige Cleaver. from Soul on /ce by Eidridge Cleaver, Copy. Stories by Afro.Americon Writers (1950) by permission.
naht © 1968 by Eldridge Cleaver. Used with permission of Charing Gordome, “A Quiet Talk with Myself. Esquire, January
McGraw-Hill Book Company. 1970. Reprinted by permission of Willism Morris Agency, inc.
. . . - Copyright ©) 1970 by Charles Gordone.
CNaositnwe nee Sethe rameter tees Verne linabem, rom Aon rte by Lomi Hae
Cullen. Co: he 1925 = berry. Copyright © 1958 43 an unpublished work by Lorraine
. Copyrig by Harper & Brothers: renewed 1963
t “ =o Hansberry. Copyright © 1959 by Lorraine Hansberty. Re-
wy Ida M. Cullen. “To a Brown Boy,” "Two Who Crossed 5 :
Line (She Crosses), “In Memory of Col, Charles Young” preted by permission of Random House, Inc.
Copyright © 1971 by Ginn and Compaey lroen Color (1925) by Countee Cullen. Copyright 1926 by Langston Hughes, “The Negro Speaks of Rivers,” "As | Grew
Aa regis reserved No part of the matenal covered by thes copynght Horper & Brothers; renewed 1953 by Ida M. Culen Re Older.” and “Mother to Son.” copyright 1926 by Alfred A.
oar Caan Ce CAT printed by permission of Harper & Row, Publishers Incor Knopt, Inc. and renewed 1954 by Langston Hughes. Reprint-
wary Catsiog Nurnber :
ISBN 0 526.00168.5 Painted in the United States of America rams 0d trom Selected Poems, by Langston Hughes, by permission
Fe Liznany YQ 920312 v
ig Nom & Mary)
far e
| vi Acknowledgments
! |
of the publisher, "Daybreak in Alabaena,” copyaght 1948 by Alan McPherson, by permission of Atlantic-Little, Brown and
Allred A. Knopt. Ine. Repanted trom Selected Poems by Co
Laegtion Hughes, by permission of the pubtsher, “Sum Naom Loag Madgett, from Star by Star by Noom Long Madgett.
Oteam,” from oer terlanaedatlhy vce ent Harlo Press, 1965. Repanted by permmssion of the author.
Copyright €) 1967 by Ama Bon George 5 Paule
: Alfred A. . Ine. Poule Marshall, from Soul Clap Hands and Sing by
Coss. ee ae wil saa eee Re. Marshall. Copyright© 1961 by Pauie Marshall, Reprinted by
printed from The Panther and the Lash. by Langston Hughes, Dermssion.
| by permission of Aifred A Knopf, Inc. "Brass Spittoons.~ Lowis Peterson, Take a Giant Step, copyright © 1954 by Louis
' reprinted from Fine Clothes to the Jew by permission of Peterson. Repainted by permission of Ashley Famous Agency,
Harold Ober Associates ——— Copvieh € she Inc.
Langston Hughes. Renewed. ~ Trouble will Angels,” re- " =
printed from Laughing to Keep trom Crying by permission of Segoe ts Diskey Raat ry birt finer Kage
Harold Ober Associates Incorporated. Copmmght € 1935 by Broodside Press.
Langston Hughes. Renewed. "Simple Prays a Prayer.” from h
Tie Dost ot Stoo by Easgnen ieee © 1961 by Langston Saunders Redding, trom The Lonesome Road. by Saunders
Hughes Reprinted by permission of Hill and Weng Inc. Redding. Copynght€ 1958 by Ssunders Redding, Reprinted
“Tragedy at Hampton™ and " Making ap Bgl by permission of Doubleday & Company, Inc.
Wonder as | Wander by Langston Hughes. © i Ishmaet - Magicians Fail: An laternew with
son Hughes. Reprinted by permission of Hill and Wang. Inc. tenanaal Roads” by Wait Shepea copynght 1968 by Nickel
“Dream Boogie™ and “Same in Blues.” Copyright 1951 Review. Reprinted by permission of Nickel Review. "| Ama Preface
by Langston Hughes. Reprinted from Montage of » Dream Cowboy in the Boat of Ra.” reprinted from The New Bleck
Deterred. by pacmission of Harold Ober Associates Incorpo- Poetry, copyright 1969, by permission of the author.
rated.
a and “Usten, Lord—a Melvin 8, Tolson, ~Oark Symphony,” reprinted by permission
— bere reap dale derengplirr Weldon Johnson. of Dodd, Mead & Company, Inc. from Rendezvous with The editor of this anthology, whose dissenation for the and university professors, and thst any anthology which
Copyright 1927 by The Viking Press, Inc, renewed 1955 by Auseitee toy Westen, Toleon. "Commies pag lth Fh.O degree in 1945 was concerned with imaginative —_ignores this consideration cannot adequately represent the
Grace Nail Johnson. Repanted by permission of the Viking pre phy pa = right 1963 by M. B. Tolson. twrature by American Negro Writers, has continually significant (iterary contributions of all Americans. This
Press, inc. “O Black snd Unknown Bards” trom Saint Peter nena pepe penriedion of Tworne Publishers, Inc. taught college courses in the subject since 1936. Whenthe editor does not wholly accept that doctrine, but he does
n= sa ee soar Sr oa jaar = ices. Besriag " from Cane by Jeon current demand for resource books for such courses became recognize some validity in the idea. Consequently, there
printed by permission of The Viking Press. Inc. Toomer Nioailasion of Liveright, Publishers, New York. Insistent two years ago. suggestions come in from pub. is an uneven literary quality (judged by traditional stan-
LeRot Jones," LeRoi Jones Talking.” from Home: Social Essays Copyright A 1951 by Jean Toomer. Vishers indicating a ready market for “Inetent _ anthologies dards) in the selections, but this Compromise is compen-
by LaRoi Jones. Reprinted by permission of William Morrow Waters E. Turpin, from pp. 316-344 These Low Grounds by by specialists in the field, even by “instant” specialists sated for by 4 greater degree of significant reevance in
‘and Company, inc. (Publishers). Copyright © 1961, 1962, Waters Edwaed Turpin Copynght 1937 by Harper & Row, only mildly interested in the subject. who were willing other important respects than is usually afforded in literary
1963, 1964, 1965, 1966 by LeRoi Jones, “Preface to a Publishers, Incorporated. By permission of the publishers. \w accept the challenge, But this editor refused to be rushed anthologies.
Twenty Volume Suicide boi from — ors Boca Margaret Walker “For My People” and "We Have Been twheving that even specialists require sufficient time to This collection includes eighty-one poems, fourteen short
bene poag sree By bes plese York. Re- Believers,” reprinted by permission of bers a thoughtfully assess the needs and to Getermine the most Stories, two complete dramas and 2 long excerpt (a quarter
caaaed top publish _ Coriath Book pecgehibed des ay pg char mgt 5 pre’ “e an efcctive ways of responding. including the preparation of the whole) from a third, independent units from three
William Metvin Kelley, "Enemy Territory,” copyright © 1964 by mangunen of Dt. Peoples,” and “For Maicolm x.” by ol study aids for students and instructional guides for Novels and three autobiographies, twelve essays, one inter-
Melvin Kelley from Dancers on the Share. Reprinted casion of the euthor. wachers unfamiliar with the most troublesome problems view, and three public addresses. Inclusion of the public
by permission of Doubleday & Company, Inc Harmon Watson, Those Golden Gates Fall Down. originally essOciated with the“ newly discovered” subject. Now after addresses can be justified on the beses of content and
Jonn O. Killens, “God Bless America.” Reprinted by permission produced in 1966. All eghts, including professional. emateut, two years of carefully and critically selecting and reexam- literary style. In addition to the basic qualitative requirements
of Ashley Famous Agency. Inc. Copyright @) 1952 by The motion pictures, public reading, and radio and television ienng pertinent subject matter and preparing commentaries, Stated earlier for the individual selections to be included,
Cakfornis Quarterly. broadcasting, are reserved by the author. Reproduced here by study aids, and guidelines for instructors, the editor each suthor represented must have at least one published
Martin Luther King, from pp. 79-119, Where Do We Go permission of the author, telieves Black Insights: Significant Literature by Bleck work to his credit or one drama produced in a recognized
From Here? by Martin Luther King. Jr. peeaacrch Att by Jobn A. Williams, from Night Song by John A Williams, copy- |) Americans is capable of becoming one of the most author- theater. Unfortunately, a few important novelists with more
SS ee pont hl eo with the) hustive, complete, and satisfying textbooks in the field. than one published book have been omitted because no
e Jon," “Back Home Agein.” end “Educe- Lead ae eten" sepviased The key word in the title of this anthology is significant. independently meaningful excerpt could be extracted from
Don = prepreg la pond psliske Shs aif tana Richard Wright, adage og tira bd from Eight tvery selection was chosen on the basis of its significance the desired work. However, such novelists are discussed in
Spas Lee.” and " The Primitive™ from Black Pride, Copyright Slee by Racherd Waght. Copyright €) 1940 by Richard in (wo oF more of the following respects: literary. historical, Sectional introductions, and references are made to their
© by Don L. Lee (1967) (TB) (1968) (BP). Reprinted by Wrght "Big Black Good Man,” reprinted by permission of recial, sociological, stylistic, cultural, The majot constant novels, which, in most cases, are available in inexpensive
pormission of Broadside Press. Esquire Magazine © 1987 by Esquire, Inc. concern throughout is literary significance, although not reprints, Likewise, talented poets who are not represented
Claude McKay, from Selected Poems by Claude McKay. re- Malcolm X. from The Autobiography of Moeicolm X. Copyright sways according to the traditions! norms to which most by individual selections are given some recognition in
pented by permission of Twayne Publishers. © 1964 by Alex Haley and Malcolm X. Copyright® 1965 by American critics subscribe. Some contemporary black introductory discussions.
Jacros Alon McPherson, “Gold Const.” Copyright © 1968, Alex Haley and Betty Shobazz, Reprinted by permission of writers and critics believe that there is 3 bleck esthetic The writers are grouped under four major divisions: (1)
1969 by James Alan McPherson. From Hue and Cry by James Growe Pross, Inc. eetirely different from that generally recognized by college The Pathtinders, (2) The Torchbearers, (3) The Aliensted,
vil
and (4) The Revolutionists. In addition to the general general selective bibliography is appended at the end of
Introduction, each division is preceded by an Introduction the volume. A separate /nstructor’s Manual containing
describing the common attributes of the group of authors suggestions and guidelines for using this anthology most
included in the unit. Also each suthor is introduced by a effectively has been prepared to assist teachers whose beck-
brief biographical sketch including some critical comments. grounds in and experiences with the subject are limited.
Study aids consisting of commentary and suggestive
questions are placed at the end of each part and a highly
selective bibliography follows the works of each author. A Nick Aaron Ford
Contents
Introduction Life 46
ASong 46
. Sympathy 46
1 The Pathfinders Sa iene tan
Introduction 1 Pala
Frederick Douglass 47
Vtellis Wheatley 1 Stack Samson of Brandywine 47
On Being Brought from Altice to America = 3 The Pos 48
On the Death of the Rev. Mr. George Whitefigiag, 3 Ships That Pass in the Night 48
Aa Hymn to the Morning = 4 Stow Through the Dark 48
trom On imaginstion 4 Compensstion 48
To SM. A Young Africen Painter 4 Dawn 48
To His Excellency General Washington 4 ADesth Song 49
Vihen Malindy Sings 49
Hrederick Douglass 5
From Fourth of July Speech at Rochester 6 Castes $7. Chosen 60
The Wile of His Youth 60
flooker T. Washington 14 Comments and Questions 66
Speech at Atlanta Exposition §15
| Speech at Harvard University = 17
Kelly Miller 17
s aadia aa en 2 The Torchbearers
Asto the Leopard's Spots 23 Introduction 69
W.E.B. DuBois 32 James Weldon Johnson 61
Ot the Coming of John = 33 The Creation 64
Of the Sorrow Songs 39 Listen, Lord = 65.
Paci Cawrence Duaber! 144 O Black and Unknown Bards 65
| Ere Sleep Comes Down to Soothe the Weary Eyes 45 Sterling A. Brown = 66
Forever 45 A Century of Nogro Portraiture in American Literature 66
| ,
veunteone “
| x Contents |
lames Baldwin 192 Claude Brown §=310
Countee Cullen 78 3 The Alienated Tho Discovery of What It Means to Be an American 194 Chapter 18 from Manchiid in the Promised Land 311
Black Magdsiens = 79 Gabriel's Prayer 196
; Dudley Randall 317
a paeteetan 128 Williom Melvin Kelley 219 pre
To # Brown Boy 79 wad Primitives 318
Two Who Crossed @ Line {She Crosses) 80 Langston Hughes 140 {nemy Territory 220 The Rie 318
Fora Post 80 The Negro Sposks of Rivers 141 Qwondolyn Brooks 223 Black Post, White Critic 318
In Memory of Col Charles Young 80 Brass Spiatoons = 141 bins om The Melting Pot = 318
WeDo Lewes ee tae 2 song in the front yerd | 224 John Oliver Killens 319
ek Se the balled of chocolate Mabbie
Arma Bontemps 80 Slum Oreams 142 iar pa — God Bless America 320
ASummer Tragedy 81 Dream Deferred 142 The of the Poor 226 LeRoi Jones 322
As | Grow Older 142 ine a as
Waters Edward Turpin 85 Dream Boogie 142 Martin Luther King — 227 Prefece to @ Twenty Volume Suicide Note 326
Those Low Grounds 86 Same in Blues 143 = Hacium and the White Backlash — 227
Trouble with the Angels Charles Gordone =. 326
Margaret Walker 94 Sienple Prays a Prayer 146 James Alan McPherson 239 A Tak with Myself 207
Tragedy at Hampton §=-147 Gold Coast 240
Pos Bey Fecteau Making Poetry Pay 148 Malcolm X 332
pd * — sai Chapter 19 from The of MaicoimX 333
Harrier Psy Jean Toomer 150 Toke a Giant Step =. 247 cecal
jaicolm .
Ode 98 Biood.Burming Moon 150 1 Hanst 278 John A Williams 341
Claude McKay 154 Act One, Scene 1 from A Raisin in the Sun 279 Greener © Some Wight a9 Se
Melvin B. Tolson = 400
Amenca 155 Marmon Watson 289 Eldridge Cleaver 346
Dark Symphony 100 8 188 On Becoming 347
i i 102 Those Golden Gates Fall Down 289
From Libretto tor the Republic of Liberia it We Must Die 185 The White Race and Its Horoes = 352
Harlem Shadows §=186 Harry Dolan =. 296
Paule Marshall §=104
“ Harlem Dancer 156 Con An Angry Black Man Write of Laughter and Don. Lee 368
| Babedos 104 Flome-Heert 156 Love? 296 Introduction 358
Brockiyn) 111 After the Winter 156 Back Again. Home 359
} Comments and Questions 299 Educetion 359
Naomi Long Madgett 119 Frank Marshall Davis 157 Two Poems 359
The Race Question 120 Frank Marshall Davis: Weiter 157 The Self-Hetred of Don L. Lee 360
Tree of Heaven 120 What Do You Want, America? 158 4 The Revolutionists The Primitive 360
Alabama Centennial 120
Black Weartness 9160
i ea Hands of a Brown Women = 161 {nwoduction 303 Comments and Questions 361
Midwoy 121 Roosevelt Smith 162
Wilhe Cross, 122 South State Steet Profile 163 eens! Heed one Selective Bibliography 364
Monality 122 Creation 163 When State Magicians Fail 305
Only My Words 163 1 Am a Cowboy in the Boat of Ra = 310 Index 369
Nick Aaron Ford §=122
The Ordeal of Richard Wright 123 Richard Wright 164
Cultural Integration Through Literature = 128 ‘The Man Who Was Almost 8 Mon 166
Let the Church Rol On = 132 Big Black Good Man 171
One Way to Victory 133
Ralph Ellison 177
Saunders Redding 134 From \avisible Man
From The Lonesome Road Prologue 178
Mi. Senith Goes to Washington $= 135 Epilogue 182
Brave Woeds for @ Startling Occasion §=185
Comments and Quesiions 137 Richard Wright's Blves «(186
wv 108 rawr. vires ‘ie venewrstrouvur OF
BB Charles W. Chestnutt (1858-1932) correct social standards among a people whose social con- able, and his morals above suspicion. He had come to
Giion presented almost unlimited room for improvement. Groveland 3 young man, and obtaining employment in the
= ’ By accident, combined perhaps with some natural affinity, office of 3 railroad company as messenger hed in time
5 Chestnutt the most accomplished character in the = ;
oa oe, gt pool bitters edges Hegre qrevp.. te westing the exities of coste tho society consisted of — who were, generally worked himself up to the position of stationery clerk,
. : =e and color during the Mscnienteten sadod Chestnutt towaking, more white than black. Some envious outskler having charge of the distribution of the office supplies for
family to North Carolina, where he remained until sometimes seems to accept the raciel myths of his made the suggestion that no one was eligible for member- the whole company. Although the lack of early training
departure for New York City in 1883. During his seventeen time; but he had a keen eye for social injustice and, thio who was not white enough to show blue veins. The had hindered the orderly development of a naturally fine
years in the South he embarked on an ambitious program before Isying down his pen, he had either used or suggestion was readily adopted by those who were not mind, it had not prevented him from doing # great deal of
of self-education that led to his employment as 8 teacher suggested many of the themes of the fiction of Negro Of the favored few, and since that time the society, though reading or from forming decidedly literary tastes. Poetry
in the public schools of the state, including the principel- life as we know it today. possessing a longer and more pretentious name, had been was his passion. He could repeat whole pages of the great
Pes a the State perme hater esr ae ' - + ins kis ansueipaser ear Chaamans known far and — as the “Blue Vein Society,” and its English poets; and if his pronunciation was sometimes
. return to Cleveland, Gloster . correc! ap EOR Rembers as the ~ Blue Veins.” faulty, his eye, his voice, his gestures, would respond to
admitted to the Ohio bar, although he never entered the cama ereskogaes psec teauapineietpetaied The Blue Veins did not allow that any such requirement the changing sentiment with # precision that revealed a |
active practice of law, Lepreaews to work rather as 8 court aaa ~~ ay Psapereatgace hl ee ne suisted for admission to their circle, but, on the contrary, poetic soul and disarmed criticism. He was economical,
and commercial stenographer, true @ critic before 1 ly thi : i
vie fect broke into pelat with the publication of Negro eres and the putilc know thet tho author wes a Negro. It pe area buen armen eee Gan tan aura ee eee bees pede _—
folk = year a inthe a isa — Le _— vod = paprencay m pede Colored, it was because such persons, as a rule, had had was handsomely furnished, containing among other things
Monthly same year he was admitted practic books. batt iti ify 1 ip. a i / 4 5
law. It was the first time this magazine had published 2 author in the belief that such @ revelation might be harmful arekgroE ae : ph Pe a —_ heer _ see = ae
story by a Negro writer, Twelve years later The Conjure to the possible success of the books. Chestnutt reacted to Thore were those who had been known to assail it violently some young couple, who looked after his wants and were
Women (1899), a collection of seven Negro folk tales the failure to divulge his race with the following explana- as a glaring example of the very prejudice from which the company for him; for Mr. Ryder was a single man. In the
including “The Gophered Grapevine,” end The Wife of tion: "It never occurred to me to claim any merit because Colored race had suffered most; and later, when such critics early days of his connection with the Blue Veins he had been
His Youth snd Other Stories (1899) were published by of it [race), and | have always resented the denial of any- hed succeeded in getting on the inside, they had been regarded as quite # catch, and young ladies and their
Houghton Mifflin and Company, and Frederick Douglass thing on account of it. ; a hoved to maintain with zeal and earnestness that the society mothers had manauvred with much ingenuity to capture
(1899), by Small, Maynard and Company. Within the next Although Chestnut wrote nothing See soap #2 was #lifebost, an anchor, a bulwark and a shield,—a pillar him. Not, however, until Mrs. Molly Dixon visited Grove-
five years he published three novels: The House Behind the he received the NAACP’s Spingam Award in 928 of cloud by day and of fire by night, to guide their people land had any woman ever made him wish to change his
Cedars (1900), The Marrow of Tradition (1901), and The Laces asa er tag pacer) ee Wile and Brough the social wilderness. Another alloged prerequisite condition to that of 8 married man.
Colonel's Dream (1905). struggle of Americans descent. selection for Blue Vein membership was that of free birth; and while Mrs. Dixon had come to Groveland from Washington in
Hugh Gloster in his Negro Voices in American Fiction Presented here was chosen a8 8 good example of one of the Ihore was really no such requirement, it is doubtless true the spring, and before the summer was over she had won
(1948) gives a succinct and fai appraisal of Chestnutt's major characteristic concerns of his fiction: the tragic that very few of the members would have been unable to Mr, Ryder’s heart. She possessed many attractive qualities.
literary achievements: situation of the mulatto. Moet it if there had been. If there were one or two of the She was much younger than he: in fact, he was old enough
Cisssiania ws on tm wall-bleser ta — olier aeersy who had come up from the South - from = have =a father, though no one knew exactly how
tee . portant ¢ ) Ames Leg Wyvery, their history presented enough romantic circum- old he was. She was whiter than he, and better educated.
pengchapearl lade Aepbay sonepelachr RECOMMENDED READINGS Hances to rob their servile origin of its grosser aspects. She had moved in the best colored society of the country,
of actual conditions but also became the first colored Chestnutt. Charles W. The Wife of His Youth and Other Stories Whale there were no such tests of eligibility. it is true that at Washington, and had taught in the schools of that city.
writer of fiction work was generally criticized (Boston: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 1899}: Repeint the Blue Veins had their notions on these subjects, and that Such a superior person had been eagerty welcomed to the
Mabe Sees In The Wife of His Youth {aan Ley eres of peer nip 1968). ae fot ail of them were equally liberal in regard to the things Blue Vein Society, and had taken a leading part in its
and Other Stories of the Color Line he experimented pasescgera (Chopel = qr : ai Wesa Caan Press. thoy collectively disclaimed. Mr. Ryder was one of the activities. Mr. Ryder had at first been attracted by her
with racial subject matter which he subsequently 1950). Most conservative. Though he had not been among the charms of person, for she was very good looking and not
handled at greater length in The House Behind the Gloster, Hugh. " Pioneer in the Fiction of Negro Lite, Phyion, lt founders of the society, but had come in some years later, over twenty-five; then by her refined manners and the
Cedars, The Marrow of Tradition, and The Colonel's {First Quarter, 1941). pp. 67-66. . tis genius for social leadership was such that he had vivacity of her wit. Her husband had been a government
Dream, Ail four of these books are favorably disposed Smith, Robert A Berne ua snoodity become its recognized adviser and head, the clerk, and at his death had left a considerable life insurance.
toward the mulatto, who ostensibly represented for CLA Journal, V (Merch 1962), pp. : tus:odian of its standards, and the preserver of its traditions. She was visiting friends in Groveland, and, finding the
He shaped its social policy, was active in providing for its town and the people to her liking, had prolonged her stay
entertainment, and when the interest fetl off, as it sometimes indefinitely. She had not seemed displeased at Mr. Ryders
. . Wid, he fanned the embers until they burst again into a cheer- attentions, but on the contrary had given him every proper
The Wife of His Youth fui fame. encouragement; indeed, a younger and less cautious man
' ‘There were still other reasons for his popularity. While would long since have spoken. But he had made up his
Mr. — peeahy lee dceiedlen grt de woe not as white as some of the Blue Veins, his appear- mind, and hed only to determine the time when he would
Mr, Ryder was going to give a ball. There were several Veins. original Blue Veins were a little society $nce was such as to confer distinction upon them. His ask her to be his wife. He decided to give a ball in her
reasons why this was an opportune time for such an colored persons organized in 9 certain Northern city shortly fontures were of a refined type, his hair was almost straight; honor, and at some time during the evening of the ball to
event. after the war. Its purpose was to establish and meintain 0 was always neatly dressed ; his manners were kreprosch- offer her his heart and hand. He had no special fears about
“a
/
(=)
